this is apn-311 more commonly known as
quasiba
a cutting-edge pharmaceutical antibody
used to treat complex illnesses in
hospitals
all over the world this is manufactured
by iperium biologics an austrian-based
firm
the raw medicine is then loaded into a
canister like this one and shipped to
the netherlands to be packaged
then onto ireland for warehousing it
will then be sold wholesaled to beijing
who will label the product for
individual markets in their plant in
guangzhou
before shipping it back to ireland which
will in turn ship it to regional
distribution centres
who will distribute it directly to
hospitals who will distribute it to
doctors who will distribute it into
their patients squishy squishy organs
yeah i know right what's more is that
this didn't even include
the base chemicals needed to actually
manufacture this raw medicine
and apn311 supply chain
isn't even an outlier in the
pharmaceutical world if anything it's
comparatively straightforward
but not as straightforward as making a
product and then just shipping it to
distribution centers
so why add all of this extra complexity
and don't think this is a weird quirk of
the medical industry either
everything from your fridge to your
phone to the clothes you are wearing
right now
have likely been produced bit by bit in
dozens of countries in hundreds of
different factories involving tens of
thousands of workers
if i were to ask you where iphones are
made you'd probably turn around and say
well china but this isn't the whole
story
the entire iphone supply chain before
retail distribution
involves 43 countries from battery
lithium mined in brazil to
semiconductors printed in taiwan
all the way down to really obscure
things like those lovely little boxes
which are produced in the czech republic
so
when does this all get too much sure
there are comparative advantages to
producing products in countries with
good manufacturing infrastructure
or low labor costs or hey even some nice
tax policies
but at what point does shipping things
back and forth across the world
end up costing more than the cheap
salaries you're able to exploit
well to find out we're going to as
always look at a few critical factors
how do companies come up with these
intricate supply chains why are some of
these supply chains
so convoluted where others are extremely
straightforward
and will the severe restrictions put on
international shipping during the
fallout of the coronavirus
make companies rethink how far they
extend their supply lines
this video is brought to you by acorns
the investment app trusted by over 9
million people including myself here at
economics explained
if you guys have been a viewer of this
channel for any length of time you
already know that i'm a big fan of
acorns
not only because they actually care
about helping people build wealth
but also because they make it really
easy for anyone to get started with
investing
thanks to features like recurring
contributions you can spend more time in
the market
and less time trying to time the market
more on that later
here's how it works just choose the
amount that you wish to invest
set the frequency like daily weekly or
monthly
and you're all set just like that you're
investing in a diversified portfolio
while also lowering your risk exposure
by consistently investing over time
stay tuned until the end to learn more
or sign up now at acorns.com
ee and acorns will deposit five dollars
into your portfolio
to help you get started with investing
again that's acorns.com
ee the link is on the screen now and in
the video description below
so the first thing to understand when
looking at shipping maps like this one
is the factors that can contribute to
steps in the process that seem
redundant the first and most obvious one
to address up front
is that most companies actually don't
manufacture their own products from
beginning to end
a company like general motors will of
course make some parts in-house from raw
materials
but even things like sheet metal are in
turn purchased from steel manufacturers
who purchase raw iron ore
off the international commodities market
taken a step further
using our example of the iphone from
earlier we will find that apple doesn't
even handle the manufacturing at all
themselves
instead they subcontract this process to
foxconn
who in turn deals with the cheapest
supplies they can find for individual
components
the natural push towards more focused
component manufacturing is a natural
part of efficient production
why bother making something yourself
when it can be purchased from a supplier
who specializes in making these
components as cheaply as possible
but this raises the question of why
anything at all would be manufactured
outside of places like china
especially when it's a chinese product
like the medicine we explored earlier
well this is down to technology and
regulation
this particular drug is manufactured in
austria which is one of the most
expensive places on earth to produce
something
but it's still made here because of
extensive government contributions
towards harboring medical research in
the nation
the trade-off is that any breakthrough
treatment that is developed in one of
the nation's sponsored facilities
needs to be produced in austria this is
still a win-win for the people of
austria and the pharmaceutical companies
though
the companies get a hotbed of medical
research which is to pharmaceuticals
what silicon values to technology
and the people of the nation get a
strong employer that pays people
extremely well to perform a
highly technical role this also works
well because things like pharmaceutical
products
are expensive this one canister can
easily contain
millions of dollars worth of product so
the difference between paying a team
three thousand dollars versus fifteen
thousand dollars to produce something
like this
is basically a rounding error what's
more is that this item is very cost
dense with very high profit margins
so paying to ship it all over the world
in every which way is not going to have
much of an impact on the end price
a price that is also most likely going
to be paid by an insurance company or a
government anyway
rather than a cost-conscious consumer
compared to say
an automobile this kind of product
making a few extra stops on the journey
to its end destination
is not a big deal this should be pretty
obvious to most people
but what you might not consider is the
impact of mergers and acquisitions
m a activity is at its highest point in
history
with total deal volume recently
surpassing the record high of 2.4
trillion dollars set in 2007
now there is a lot to be said about what
this means for the global economy
but one often overlooked impact is how
it muddles supply chains
if a company buys another company that
is either a supplier or distributor of
their
product this is no big deal this is
called vertical integration
and in theory the actual supply chain
shouldn't change
except now it will all be managed by the
acquiring company
which will make it look longer and more
convoluted but the products are really
only doing what they would have done
anyway for example suppose general
motors buys a steel mill
that hasn't added any extra steps to the
process of manufacturing a car that
wasn't there beforehand
in that case it just means that the
production of steel is now under the
control of the supply chain managers at
gm
however if a company does what is called
a horizontal integration
where they buy at a competitor things
can get more tricky
that competitor would have had a supply
chain all of their own
and assuming that the purchasing
business intends to keep the company
running
this supply chain will need to be
maintained at least until such a time
that the purchase company's processes
can be effectively integrated into the
purchasing company's processors
or vice versa that's right sometimes
companies will buy other companies
exclusively to get access to their
distribution networks
i don't know why i've decided to use
this as an example but think of dunder
mifflin from the office
in season six this fictional paper
company got sold to a printer
manufacturer
specifically because the purchasing
company wanted to use their distribution
network to reach new customers
dunder mifflin was purchased despite
being bankrupt
specifically for their supply chain this
sort of stuff happens
all the time in the real world but it
does create a problem
if the companies want to integrate this
whole process into one succinct
distribution system
they will need to make a lot of changes
they will need to expand some warehouses
and close others
they will need to change barcodes
inventory numbers computer systems
commission structures and a host of
other systems to merge how
paper and printers get from suppliers to
customers
now this is possible but it is extremely
difficult especially if you want to make
sure that customers can still be
serviced
while this change is taking place many
companies just don't even bother
and resign themselves to running two
systems in parallel for the different
product lines
it's not the most efficient solution but
it avoids a lot of the effort and
operational downtime
the ultimate result though is more
convoluted supply chains
so two things here the first is yes i am
the most boring person in the world to
watch comedies with
because this is what i will be thinking
about and the second is that sometimes
complexities are just an unfortunate
byproduct of running
and expanding a business but all of
these factors so far
have not really been the decision of the
company an acquiring company would love
to have just one single supply chain
pharmaceutical companies would love to
be able to produce medicine wherever
they wanted
and of course it's almost impossible for
a company to control everything from raw
materials to finished product
although don't tempt elon i suppose even
still
there are times where these factors are
not an issue and companies still choose
to add extra bits and pieces to a global
supply chain
that don't look to be necessary so then
why do companies add unnecessary moving
parts to their supply chains
well there are actually a few things but
the big ones are skirting around taxes
lobbying and genuinely minimizing costs
that last point is probably the easiest
to cover
on a large enough scale even tiny cost
advantages to producing products in one
country over another
makes it worthwhile to do so and just
absorb the cost of shipping
this becomes more prevalent the more
cost dense something is
for example something small and
expensive like electronics or medicine
can afford to skip along multiple
destinations as it gets produced because
it doesn't cost very much to ship
something like this compare that to
something like a raw commodity and you
will find that the same value of goods
will be far heavier
and far larger therefore far more
expensive to ship
minimising or eliminating any advantage
of anything outside of going as directly
as possible from the mine to the furnace
to the end user
you wouldn't mine iron ore in australia
and then ship it to china to have it
mixed with zinc and carbon before
shipping it to korea to be smelted into
steel and then finally to japan to be
formed into rebar
i mean you could theoretically do this
but you would be out of business very
quickly wasting that much shipping money
on a heavy low margin product
now where this might start to make a bit
more sense is in avoiding certain taxes
countries have trade deals with one
another which will often mean that trade
between the countries involved in said
deals
does not incur import taxes that are
levied on most other countries
import taxes can be steep and make a big
difference in the final price tag of a
product
part of the reason why foreign cars have
such a bougie connotation
is because they have historically been
far more expensive in most markets than
locally produced alternatives
for example in england a new corvette
costs about as much as a new aston
martin however
if companies can move products around
these trade deals they can avoid these
taxes altogether
consider the medicine that we were
studying earlier austria is part of the
european union which means products can
be traded between austria and
ireland ireland is home to a specific
duty-free zone which we explored in our
video on ireland's economy
this zone means it can export goods to
china with no tariffs to be packaged and
then suddenly
it's not an austrian product it's a
product of china
which just so happens to contain an
austrian component
with its new designation as a chinese
product it can now be distributed to any
country that has made trade deals with
china
which is a lot of them now of course
this is a massively oversimplified
example and
these companies don't actually disclose
the exact systems that they use
to work through these regulations for
obvious reasons
so this goes to show most people know
that supply chain engineers design
supply chains
but accountants and lawyers also have a
big part to play
and so too to lobbyists you see
manufacturers that rely on favorable
government legislation or government
dollars
have been known to spread out their
facilities over multiple election
districts
in order to be a more influential
employer if
a party doesn't support a contract for
oh i don't know
let's say a new fighter jet then the
involved company might have to shut down
these facilities and lay off workers in
crucial districts
creating enough laid off and angry
workers to swing the next election
vox did a fantastic video on exactly
this phenomenon and i'll leave a link to
that in the video description if you
want to learn more about that process in
more detail
however the ultimate end result of this
is a supply chain that is needlessly
spread out
not because it makes economic sense to
do so but because it makes political
sense to do so
this brings us on to maybe the most
important thing to consider
does all of this even make sense in the
post-lockdown world
the answer is of course we don't know
for sure yet global supply chains have
been massively altered because of two
opposing forces
the inventory bull whip and the push to
minimize stock
if one step in a supply chain is delayed
for whatever reason
like let's say a facility had to be shut
down due to a covert case being
contracted by one of its workers
then this affects all of the other steps
in this process downstream from that
factory
if an electrical insulator factory is
shut down then it means that a capacitor
manufacturer is going to need to haul
production until it can find a new
supplier
which means circuit boards can't be
produced to put on graphics cards and
then the proverbial whip crack will be
that nobody can buy
any graphics cards now the solution to
all of this would just be to keep more
inventory on hand
so that minor delays like this one can
be filled in with spare stock to keep
the whole machine chugging along
the problem with this though is that it
is expensive
take an example like amazon at the end
of 2020
they had 24 billion worth of inventory
on hand
if hypothetically they were able to half
that amount they would free up 12
billion dollars which could be
reinvested into the future growth of the
company or just invested into the market
itself
if we assume a generous market return of
10 that would be 1.2 billion dollars
that they could add as profit every year
or put another way that would be a five
percent increase in
total net profit over their largest year
on record
so yeah to stock up or not to stock up
there really is no right answer
but covert has certainly made a few
companies ask the question
once again but something that you
shouldn't have to debate over
is how important it is to save for your
future and fortunately
this is all made a lot easier with
acorns
thanks to acorns you can spend more time
in the market
and less time trying to time the markets
that's not just a cute slogan it's sound
investment wisdom
investment wisdom based on data for
instance
according to one study by jp morgan
which analyzed the last two decades of
equity market data
they found that being out of the market
for just a handful of the best trading
days
had huge consequences on portfolio
performance
another fascinating correlation that was
revealed by this study was how fast
markets rebound following declines
like how in 2019 six of the best days to
be invested in the market
occurred within only two weeks of the
worst trading days
with the largest dips usually occurring
right before the largest rebounds
case in point march 12 2020 a market
decline of nearly 10
you probably remember it well it was the
second worst day for the market in over
20 years
only to be followed the very next day by
a gain of nearly 10 percent
which just so happened to be the fourth
best day for the markets in
over 20 years the bottom line if you
study the history of the stock market
you'll find that investing consistently
in a well-diversified portfolio
and not succumbing to your emotions by
selling out when things get painful
is a tried and true wealth building
strategy and
that's the beauty of acorns thanks to
features like recurring contributions
you can invest funds into your
diversified portfolio
every day week or month there are so
many other features of their app and i
look forward to covering them all in
later videos
feel free to download the app today at
acorns.com ee
and they'll deposit five dollars into
your portfolio to help you get started
with investing
again that's acorns.com ee the link is
on the screen now and in the video
description below
thanks for watching mate bye